Holy moly, stromboli!
I’m driving the bus to flavor town.
They make a porchetta you won’t forgetta.
It was a lightning bolt of an idea in flavor town that pranked the unprankable mayor, Guy Fieri.
I could put this on a flip flop and it would taste good.
Did you get any tater with that gator?
This sauce is money!
You’re takin’ the gobble full throttle!
This place is bananas. And bananas is good.
Love, peace, and taco grease!
His seafood is so fresh it’ll slap ya.
You don’t have to eat a whole cheeseburger, just take a piece of the cheeseburger.
Some people are just born to cook and talk.
When cooking for a big crew of hungry dudes who’ve been sleeping in a parking lot, do not think you can get away with fettucini Alfredo.
No matter how tough the meat may be, it's going to be tender if you slice it thin enough.
Don’t ever use lighter fluid. It’s un-American. Amateurs, losers, and idiots use lighter fluid.
I wanna be the ambassador to Chimichanga Flavour Town.
I'm a five-seasons griller... I don't care what the weather is like. My hair is impervious to any kind of dampness, so I don't have too much to worry about.
Fried green tomatoes, brother that’s a symposium of flavor.
Splash some rub around the rest of the hog for good measure. This really doesn’t do a dang thing, but it makes you feel good about things and makes for good drama.
Shut the front door, son of Tatum O’Neal, that’s dynamite.
On the final leg of the Kid Rock culinary cruise, we ended up at the brewery where Kid Rock made Badass Beer. Now if you’re going to call it Badass beer it better be badass, and all I can tell you is the name fits the bill. Just like his music, the dude delivers. Not one to stray far from his roots or waver on his stance to do good for the city of Detroit, when Kid Rock’s Badass producer unexpectedly closed shop in 2012, Rock knew what to do: build a world-class brewery in the heart of the city staffed by Detroiters and supporting Detroit. Opening Summer 2013. Badass Beer: Trouble Has Been Brewed.
Chef Matt says, ‘Get jiggy with it, have some fun!
People who like haggis call it spicy, creamy, rich, and buttery — I don’t wanna tell you what I call it… ha ha.
My favorite line: ‘Do you get any tater with that gator? James Spader likes gator.’ (Ha ha ha, I kill me.)
I don’t know if it’s fair to call their Russian dressing Russian dressing — it should be called something sexy, like liquid Moscow.
I lay claim to the knuckle sandwich… it’s my brand, my logo, hell, even my tattoo, so when I find out that two dudes in Austin have opened up a sandwich joint and one of their menu items is the knuckle sandwich, I tell you what, they’d better deliver the real deal. (jk.)
I sucked at making my Yorkshire pudding before getting schooled by Anne. Now they’re puffy McMagic, not flat McTragic.)… She could feed me beef six ways to Sunday.
Holy clam, Batman!
The sauce is money!
How money is that?
I’m mining for food in Flavortown River.
This patio goes off the hook - I think the folks are in a Flavortown food coma.
You can find that dictionary at the Flavortown Library.
What a hot frisbee of fun!
This, my friend, is bordering on illegal. And I’m not talking about an ill eagle.
Do you get any tater with that gator?
It’s like a hot-dog lasso on the ranch in Flavortown.
That’s in the tank that fuels the bus that goes to Flavortown.
Chef Matt says, ‘Get jiggy with it, have some fun!
Dude, I’ve been stricken by chicken!
Do you have a garden hose? Something I can clean up with?
I feel like I’m in lasagna surgery here at Flavortown Memorial.
This is Gangsta!
This is Money!
We’re Riding the Bus to Flavortown!
This is Off the Hook!
This is Out of Bounds!
Shut the Front Door.
If you slow it down, eat in courses, your body, mind, stomach will catch up with this full feeling and you won't eat as much.
Lots of people make fun of me, but the truth is I'm just a man. I like food, I like people, and I like making people happy with food. I have a wife; I have two sons. I love them more than anything. Sure, my TV personality might not be for everyone, but that's okay. I just want to live my life. Please, leave me in peace. I am a man. I have dignity. I am a man.
I love watching, I love getting all the science about food. That's one of my favorite things.
Some people are just born to cook and talk.
Liver is my number one most hated food. Oh, God, I get sick talking about it!
Capital T tasty.
Pig candy.
Holy clam, Batman!
You’re takin’ the gobble full throttle!
Like a speed-bump in Flavortown.
